Seeing that my chance here is dismal, what is the chance that I obtain an above-average math score on the SAT? (If I were to guess on every question in both math sections of the SAT, what is the probability that I’ll get 90% or above? (Assume all questions are multiple-choice with 4 answers.))
-5
How many vertices are on every platonic solid, combined?
2
Another cliche question: what is the 2023rd Fibonacci number?
422
How many letters are in all Goosebumps books, combined?
7
How much energy, in terms of plates of butter chicken, would it take to press down the keys on a typewriter to write every book in the Library of Congress?
7
What fraction of the permutations of 6 arbitrary letters consist of a valid 6-letter word in English?
-4
It is often said that “a picture is worth a thousand words.” If we converted all words in the English language into pictures, how many cartridges would it take to print them if each picture was on a piece of 5’’x11’’ paper?
2
If I wrote a book every day on paper made from a tree currently on Earth, how many nanoseconds would it take for me to use up every tree?
28
If I had an atom of Uranium-235 that formed at the birth of the Universe, what’s the chance it’s still an atom of Uranium-235 today?
-6
If I created a baseball-sized lump of alpha particles and they traveled together at their normal speed, what would be their kinetic energy? Assume they are perfectly packed together.
30
If I liquified a mole of moles and shaped that mole into a sphere, how many barns would the surface area be? (Hail Randall Munroe)
42
How many nanograms of ATP will be produced if a cubic smoot of butter chicken was metabolized perfectly?
17
How much energy, in Joules, is needed to propel a cannonball at the edge of space to orbital velocity?
8
If Rockefeller’s fortune accrued interest in a typical bank from the beginning of the universe, how many Chinese Yuan would it be worth now? (Note: The scoring for this question is different. The score is 5 if your estimate n if you calculate your answer as 10^n is within a factor of 10 of the true answer, 3 if within a factor of 100, and 1 if within a factor of )
20920074
How many red blood cells were shed by the soldiers killed in the Civil War?
19
Enrico Fermi, the scientist our event is named after, pioneered nuclear energy. How many grams of uranium would remain in a 1kg block of pure U-235 created when Fermi was born?
3
If we took every strand of hair from every human ever born and laid them end to end, how many lightyears would that mega-hair stretch?
-1
In the bible, there was a cup described that had a perimeter of 30 cubits. Convert that to Smoots.
0
How much volume would a mole (unit of measurement) of moles (the small furry critter) take up? [L]
22
How long would it take for an average kid to completely fill up a pool with saliva? Assume no evaporation. [years]
4