Penn's founder Benjamin Franklin was a big proponent of being frugal, coining his phrase "a penny saved is a penny earned" in Poor Richard's Almanac If you saved a penny every time a baby was born in 2023 so far, how many pennies would you have "earned"?
7
How many pennies would it take to cover the state of Pennsylvania?
13
How many quarters would it take to balance the weight of the amount of pennies in the previous problem on a scale?
13
It's Penn's 7th Invitational this year. What is 2023 to the power of 7?
23
The average tree has about 200,000 leaves, each of which weighs about 5 grams. How many pounds of leaves should we expect to grow back in Philadelphia by the end of spring?
10
Aphids are pests to springtime growth, but luckily lady bugs are here to the rescue! Each ladybug can eat 5000 aphids in its lifespan. If there are as many aphids in Pennsylvania as can fit to the moon and back, how many ladybugs would be needed to eat all of them?
5
Nitrogen makes up around 4% of a plant's DRY weight. If you had a greenhouse that grew 10 pounds of LIVE plants, how many nitrogen atoms would have been taken up from the soil?
24
If the fictional Penn Ivy grows at a rate of 3 cm per hour and was planted during a full moon, how long in mm would it be by the next full moon?
4
In the interval of one hummingbird flap, how many yards has light traveled?
7
In the same time frame as the previous question, how many inches would a sound wave have traveled?
3
How many hydrogen atoms are in the Sun?
57
If there are 143 different bowls of soup on a table, and I wanted to choose 17 of them to eat, in how many ways can I do so?
21
Suppose we had enough soup cans (2 inch radius, 6 inches tall) to fill up an Olympic sized pool. How many feet of wrapping would we need to label all of them?
6
If you never stopped playing the piano at 164 bpm in common time for 10 years straight, how many bars would you have played?
8
Suppose you played the lowest string on a tuned violin for 10 minutes straight. How many times would that string have vibrated back and forth?
5
How many fully grown silverback gorillas would it take to bench press the Eiffel tower?
4
Suppose you could consume uranium-235 (undergoing complete nuclear fission) and absorb all of its energy in calories without any adverse health effects. Assuming that you are an average human weight, how many miles would you have to run to burn off the energy obtained from consuming a kilogram of uranium?
7
The infinite monkey theorem states that a monkey hitting keys at random on a typewriter keyboard for an infinite amount of time will almost surely type any given text. If the monkey consistently types at 100 WPM on a 44 key-typewriter, how long, in minutes, would we expect the monkey to take to type the following string: "GOOD SOUP"
12
Suppose you want to go on a road trip from Seattle, Washington to Miami, Florida, inside a Tesla Model S Plaid. Assuming that the battery has infinite capacity, how many seconds would it take to charge the car for the entire trip with a 120W macbook pro charger?
7
If you dropped a cubic meter block of gold into the deepest part of Marianas Trench, how long would it take (in seconds) for it to sink to the bottom?
2